# About Ryan Arnold | Computer Science Student

My name is Ryan Arnold, and I am a Junior going for my Computer Science degree here at SUNY New Paltz. While at SUNY New Paltz, a recent Associate’s Degree transfer from Dutchess Community College, and graduating high school at New Paltz Central School District, I learned a multitude of information relating to computer science that brought me to what I know today. In high school, I took just basic introductions to computer science, briefly touching on Java and HTML/CSS/JS. At Dutchess Community College, I took only more Java courses where I learned about more advanced topics and data structures. Now in my second full semester at New Paltz, I have taken Assembly Language and Computer Architecture and Object-Oriented Programming. This semester, I plan to take Web Programming, Operating Systems, Language Processing, and Software Engineering, so I will gain a lot of knowledge by applying more of what I learned in the past, including this class too. I personally do not have much programming experience outside of class, besides some small projects for work or my own recreation. I am also very inexperienced and not great at dealing with computers, their hardware, and software. I created two programs using Python to help calculate and process rebates for my parent's HVAC company, which went a long way in helping the department here process the applications as fast as possible. I also created software to generate job proposals for the company's comfort specialist team using PyQt5 for the forms, Python for the code, and PyDocX for creating the word document. I found this was a great learning experience, even if it was using Python, to create an actual software that can be used in the real world. The only other real project I worked on was an Excel-attached program, using Python, for a Rubik's Cube competition host to sort and organize everyone's times and solves, which I wrote the algorithm for the program while my friend handled forms and front-end. I look forward to the classes I currently am taking to give me more experience creating larger and more serious projects that can be applied to the real world.

As for what I want to use from this class in the future, I would say there are two aspects of this class that would benefit me in the future. The first and most obvious aspect is the knowledge of new languages and topics that we will discuss over the next many weeks, including long overdue topics like Git and Node. These are all topics that I have never thought to explore since I did not have any projects that required these, so I am excited to learn and retain the knowledge of them. The other less-discussed aspect is the experience of completing a full project in school with the guidance of a professor and classroom. This is very important to me because it will be able to prove that I can sit down, start, and can finish the project, something that I have not fully done yet. With this experience, I will be able to be more confident in my ability to start and finish projects in the future. I do not have any projects planned with the topics we will learn in this class, but I do have a few ideas that I can get closer to starting once this class is over. I have been very fortunate that my life has not gone through too many hardships through the pandemic and I attached a photo to this essay on the next page. Thank you.
